README.md, before:

# 🐍 Object-Oriented Programming (OOPs) in Python  

## 📘 Overview  
This repository contains my projects and exercises based on the **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)** concepts in Python.  
Each sub-project demonstrates one or more OOP principles — such as **Classes, Objects, Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, and Abstraction**.  

This repo marks my transition from basic Python programming to writing structured, modular, and scalable code.  

---
## 📁 Folder Structure
Python-oop-projects/
│
├── README.md
│
└── Bank-Management-System/
    ├── bank_system.py
    └── README.md
``


## 🧱 Projects Included  
| Project Name | Description | Key Concepts |
|---------------|-------------|---------------|
| 🏦 **Bank Management System** | A console-based simulation of a banking system with pin creation, deposit, withdrawal, and balance inquiry. | Classes, Objects|

---

## 🧠 Concepts Practiced  
- Classes and Objects  
- Constructors & Methods  
- Inheritance  
- Encapsulation  
- Polymorphism  
- Abstraction  

---

## 🧩 Tools and Technologies  
- **Language:** Python 3  
- **IDE:** Visual Studio Code  
- **Version Control:** Git & GitHub  

---

## 🚀 How to Run  
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/aryamourya/OOPs-in-Python.git

## How to navigate to any folder
```
  cd OOPs-in-Python/Bank-Management-System
```

Commit message:

Add author and contact information to README
Added author information and contact details to the README.

README.md, after:

# 🐍 Object-Oriented Programming (OOPs) in Python  

## 📘 Overview  
This repository contains my projects and exercises based on the **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)** concepts in Python.  
Each sub-project demonstrates one or more OOP principles — such as **Classes, Objects, Inheritance, Encapsulation, Polymorphism, and Abstraction**.  

This repo marks my transition from basic Python programming to writing structured, modular, and scalable code.  

---
## 📁 Folder Structure
Python-oop-projects/
│
├── README.md
│
└── Bank-Management-System/
    ├── bank_system.py
    └── README.md
``


## 🧱 Projects Included  
| Project Name | Description | Key Concepts |
|---------------|-------------|---------------|
| 🏦 **Bank Management System** | A console-based simulation of a banking system with pin creation, deposit, withdrawal, and balance inquiry. | Classes, Objects|

---

## 🧠 Concepts Practiced  
- Classes and Objects  
- Constructors & Methods  
- Inheritance  
- Encapsulation  
- Polymorphism  
- Abstraction  

---

## 🧩 Tools and Technologies  
- **Language:** Python 3  
- **IDE:** Visual Studio Code  
- **Version Control:** Git & GitHub  

---

## 🚀 How to Run  
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/aryamourya/OOPs-in-Python.git

## AUTHOR:- ARYA MOURYA
### Contact 
 - Email: [aryamourya0@gmail.com]
 - LinkedIn:
   [www.linkedin.com/in/arya-mourya-a6a126316]

## How to navigate to any folder
```
  cd OOPs-in-Python/Bank-Management-System
```
